# Original Concept Pitch (Pinkunz)

> Not a spec, necessarily, but the idea/inspiration we're starting from...

Long ago, socks and underwear were the best of friends, coexisting
peacefully in the realm of Laundrandia. They worked together to
keep humans comfortable and stylish. However, a rivalry emerged
over time due to differences in their roles. Underwear, more known
for their practicality and occasional great personal sacrifice,
grew envious of the spotlight that socks received due to their
colorful designs and various styles as well as being regularly
seen and admired by other humans.

The Socksmith, a wise and ancient being formed from primordial
dryer lint, emerged as a peacemaker. Crafted from the threads of
unity, the Socksmith created a special sock capable of bestowing
the gift of reconciliation on those who possessed it, aiming to
bridge the gap between socks and underwear. This magical sock,
known as the "Harmony Sock," could adapt its appearance and
qualities based on its surroundings.

While many underwear reconciled after the Harmony Sock bearing
Socksmith wisely acknowledged the multifaceted uses and often
remarkable craftsmanship and beauty of underwear, a splinter group
refused to engage, choosing instead to retreat from talks and
harbor their grievances. Despite The Socksmith's efforts, tensions
escalated between socks and underwear due to actions by this
splinter group. Angry with the recalcitrance of this faction, some
socks grew disillusioned with the negotiations and formed their
own radical group. This culminated in the disappearance of the
Harmony Sock altogether, creating chaos as the unity it
represented vanished. Each faction blamed the other and it is
unclear who was at fault. After a protracted battle staining the
ground with lint and stray threads, the Laundrandia world split
into separate regions, with socks and underwear forming their
distinct territories. The Socksmith, saddened by such senseless
fabric-shed, retreated into self-exile, leaving the socks and
underwear to their grievances.

In the midst of the divide, the discord caused ancient evil to
emerge.  Detergent monsters arose from the negativity fueled by
the rivalry. Led by the cunning Scrubbing Bubbles Scoundrel and
his elite Oxi-Raiders, these monsters sought to maintain the
divide and keep socks and underwear apart and fuel yet more
negativity. Individual heroes rose from both sides, inspired by
the lost Harmony Sock and aiming to restore unity and peace to
Laundrandia, only to be struck down by vicious hordes of detergent
monsters.

As the protagonist of "Colossal Sock Adventure," you fall into
this world at a critical time. While leaning into your dryer
searching for you lost sock, it's partner in your hand, you
literally tumble into this world, in a less graceful
Narnia-fashion. The missing sock from your laundry machine is none
other than the legendary Harmony Sock. To reunite Laundrandia and
solve the mystery of its disappearance, you must travel through
various landscapes, solve sock-related puzzles, and make
unexpected alliances.

Throughout your journey, you learn the importance of unity and
understanding.  By solving puzzles, helping characters reconcile
their differences, and recovering lost artifacts, you gradually
mend the divide between socks and underwear. As you progress, you
discover pieces of the Harmony Sock, ultimately seeking out the
reclusive Socksmith to mend them together, hoping to restore its
power.

The game's climax sees you facing off against the Scrubbing
Bubbles Scoundrel and his Oxi-Raiders in a battle of wits and
sock-themed strategies. By outsmarting the detergent monsters, you
retrieve the last piece of the Harmony Sock. The final act has you
trying to convince an embittered and hopeless Socksmith to embrace
hope again and mend the Harmony Sock. As you return it to its
rightful place, the realms of socks and underwear merge, and
Laundrandia is whole once again.

Socks and underwear learn to appreciate each other's strengths,
and the legacy of the Harmony Sock reminds them of the importance
of unity. With newfound understanding, the two factions live
together in harmony, forging a brighter future for Laundrandia.

## Possible puzzle ideas

### Sock Transformation Puzzles

Your ordinary sock that the Harmony sock had been paired with
until disappearing has been imbued with magical properties by
being repeatedly folded together with the Harmony Sock, such that
it can now change its shape and appearance. This sock is essential
to progress in the game. You must experiment with folding and
stretching the sock to create different forms that help you
interact with the environment and solve unique challenges.

### Sock Matching Challenge

In the Socktopian Forest, you come across a mischievous group of
sock creatures who are playing hide-and-seek. To proceed, you must
help them match pairs of socks by finding socks with the same
patterns and colors.

### Sock Knot Untangling

In a winding underground tunnel, you discover itâ€™s actually one
massively long sock with many knots blocking your way. Using your
keen puzzle-solving skills, you must untangle the knot by
carefully selecting the right threads to pull.

### Laundry Symbol Riddles

Inside the Socksmith's abandoned workshop, you discover a wall
covered in mysterious laundry symbols. To unlock a secret
compartment, you must decipher the symbols' meanings and input the
correct sequence of actions to reveal the hidden compartment.

### Sock Puppet Puppeteer

To gain the trust of a group of sock puppet guards, you must
master the art of sock puppetry. Utilizing intuitive gestures, you
manipulate your own sock puppet to mimic the guards' movements and
actions, convincing them that you're one of them.

### Sock Bog Maze

In the Linty Lagoon, you encounter a massive bog made of lint.  To
navigate the maze-like bog and reach the other side, you must
manipulate the lint traps strategically to create a path and avoid
obstacles.

### Sock-Woven Bridge

In order to cross a turbulent river, you must gather various stray
threads and weave them into a sturdy sock bridge. The challenge
involves selecting the right combination of threads and weaving
techniques to create a bridge that holds your weight.
